Your ship is drifting, seeming almost motionless above the skies of the small,
icy planetoid you are calling home these days. Out here, the sun is only a
slight dot, its role as the great giver of life greatly dimished by the huge
distance. But you make do. Life might not be as lush as your people have been
used to for most of their existence, but with ingenuity and hard work it's
possible to make a living, even out here.

Still, many vie for more, and you are no exception. What wouldn't you do for
true prosperity, a small taste of the opulence of your people's glorious past?

Fortunately, for an enterprising indiviual such as yourself, it is obvious where
to get all of this. In the inner solar system, billions of kilometers closer to
the sun, lie your ancestral homelands. The cradle of all civilization, where
once your forebears learned to make their first, timid leaps into the great
darkness of space.

All of this is just a memory, of course, and no living being has walked these
worlds in a long time. A generation ago, when the Von Neumann probes descended
upon your homeworlds, bathing idyllic landscapes in atomic fire, your people
were forced to depart, making new homes for themselves, hidden away in the
outermost reaches of the solar system.

The probes are still there today, basking in the glow of the sun that should be
yours, turning its warmth into energy to be used for a vast industry that churns
out more and more copies of themselves for a purpose known only to them.

You force your attention back into the present. There's no point dwelling in
somber thoughts. Looking towards the future is much more productive, especially
tonight, the night of the big raid.

Sure, you've raided before, but not like this, never this deep into the inner
solar system. This raid is going to be risky, but it also promises a much higher
reward. You and your companions have prepared accordingly, pooling all your
resources to commission brand new ships, spending months on smaller raids to
stockpile enough equipment, fuel and ammunition. Always at the risk of being
discovered and losing it all in one swift strike of retaliation.

But your daring has paid off. Your small flotilla of four ships is in orbit
around its frozen base of operations, ready to go at a moment's notice. You give
the command. In perfect symphony, the ships start the burn of their main
engines, a burn that will both let you escape the planetoid's gravity, as well
as slow your speed relative to the sun, allowing you to fall down deeper into
the solar system.

A few last adjustments, then it's done. Your navigation system shows the curved
course your ship will be taking now, halfway around the sun, passing the
orbits of half a dozen planets and untold numbers of variously sized rocks on
the way. You're right on target for one of the innermost planets, the huge gas
giant near the sun.

In the old days, the next step would have been to wait while your ships drift
towards their aim, letting inertia and gravity do their slow work. Not anymore.
You and the other ships engage your faster-than-light drives at about the same
time, hurling each of you through space, compressing a journey of years into a
single moment, though at the cost of most of your fuel.

You feel a surge of adrenaline at the sudden sight of the gas giant. Just a
moment before it was a dot at the far end of your screen, now it fills most of
it. Nervously, you check your position and course, praying that your
calculations are correct. The plan was to jump in close to the planet, both to
evade immediate detection and to use its atmosphere to slow your significant
speed. A minor error has the potential to plunge you deep into the atmosphere
from where there would be no chance of ever escaping again.

You release your breath, relieved. The jump was as precise as expected, leading
you on a course that only skims the atmosphere in a daring aerocapture maneuver,
saving valuable fuel. You turn your ship's heavy top-armor forward, just as you
start to feel the vibrations induced by the first gushes of thin gas hitting
your hull. You can't help but wince at the thought of what the thicker layers of
atmosphere will do to that brand-new and still shiny armor. In just a few
minutes, it will be scorched black.

The vibrations turn into shaking, interrupted only by irregular jolts, as strong
atmospheric winds hit your ship repeatedly. Captivated, you watch your
navigation screen as it updates the projected course of your flotilla. Without
interference, your hyperbolic trajectory would have taken you back out of the
gas giants sphere of influence, eventually flinging you back into the outer
solar system. Your dip into the atmosphere causes a severe deceleration,
however, and you observe as the projection changes, eventually turning into an
elliptical orbit around the giant planet, then shrinking, moving the far side of
the ellipse closer and closer.

As the shaking from the atmosphere subsides, the rate of change slows, then
stops, leaving your projected path a near perfect circle. You let out another
sigh of relief as your four ships finally leave the atmosphere, again drifting
peacefully through the soothing vacuum of space. As you reach the other side of
the planet, you engage the main engines for a short thrust, ensuring you won't
dip back into the atmosphere on your way back around.

You can't help but flash a satisfied smile. It has cost most of your fuel to get
here, but finally you've arrived in your target area, and unharmed at that. Now
all that's left is to raid a few lightly guarded factories, a fuel depot or two
and run like hell, before the probes know what hit them.

---

Your flotilla has been in orbit of the gas giant for a while now, passively
scanning the surrounding area. In this low orbit you should be safe against
detection, shielded by the planet's radiation. If someone where to point a
sufficiently accurate telescope at your position, your cover would be blown, of
course. But you judge that as not being very likely, since any observer would
need to know where exactly to point that telescope first. At least you hope
that.

As expected, the area is a hotspot of industrial activity. Mining and production
facilities are strewn all over the gas giant's ring system and moons. One of the
targets sticks out to you: A fuel depot on one of the smaller moons. If nothing
else, you could flee back home with the fuel stored there.

At the right point in your orbit around the giant planet, you fire your main
engines to achieve a transfer orbit that will lead you to your target. You won't
use your faster-than-light drive for this journey. Every jump risks detection,
especially if the target is not as close to a large gravity well as your first
jump's goal was.

You disable engines and all non-essential systems as you sneak up on your
target. As long as no one looks too closely, you will look like a bunch of small
rocks or floating debris.

---

As you get closer to the fuel depot, your sensors pick up a few small ships
guarding the depot. You wait, hoping they won't see you until the right moment
arrives... fire! You and your companions start launching your missiles at the
same time, starting the battle. The Von Neumann probes launch their own missiles

* As you get closer, you can see the few small ships guarding the depot.
* Each of you fire missiles. Your timing is perfect: The depot is in the moon's
  shadow, nearby stations won't be able to see anything.
* Exchange of fire, but your missiles overwhelm the enemy. All are destroyed.
* Only one of your ships is lightly damaged: Debris from a nearby missile
  explosion.
* You drift to the depot and start to load the fuel. You bulky ships are not
  designed to land, of course, but on of your ships has automated shuttles that
  fly down to the surface, dock with the depot, pump their holds full of fuel
  and bring it up to your small fleet.

TODO: Moon with fuel depot is a captured asteroid. (small, low gravity)

---

* Nervousness while loading, but all goes to plan. The other probes don't
  discover the raid, you're able to fill your tanks.
* Fuel replenished! Next goal: An orbital industrial complex where currently a
  large freighter is being loaded or unloaded.
* Same approach: Sneak up on the freighter without FTL. Disable its engines,
  take all loot.
* You start attack, but surprise: The freighter has defense guns, launches small
  ships. It's a drone carrier!
* Drone carrier: Carries remote-controlled, heavily armed short-range drones.
* Drone carriers usually have a support fleet, but no other ships can be seen.
  Also: The carrier seems immobile.
* Carrier and its drones destroy your missiles, drones shoot missiles of their
  own. They're too powerful, you have to flee.
* Problem: It's too late to correct course away from them and you can't jump
  through them.
* You plot an escape course to a larger moon where you can hide. But  you'll
  have to go past the carrier first.
* Their missiles get closer and closer, you pass them, almost ready to jump.
  Quick course correction, then jump before they can determine your new course.
* Right before jump, a missile hits one of your ships and it explodes. The rest
  jump away.

---

* Your battered fleet is in low orbit around the large moon. Discussion about
  what to do: Your friends want to go home, but so far you haven't gained
  anything valuable besides the fuel (most of which will be used for the way
  home).
* Maybe: Your two remaining friends argue over radio. You're silent, think, then
  silence them dramatically. Dramatic pause, then plan explanation.
* You argue against: The surviving ships are only lightly damaged and have a lot
  of ammunition left. You still have a chance to turn this around. The carrier
  should have an escort fleet, but doesn't it's probably in maintenance. You can
  disable it and steel as much equipment as you can carry.
* And you have a plan. You explain.

---

* You are still at the moon, alone. Watching your friends through the telescope.
  They're a bit away from the carrier, firing at it from a distance.
* They have deployed the automated cargo shuttles, mimicking a third ship, so
  the probes think your whole fleet is there.
* The drones go after them, as you planned. And no additional ships have arrived
  yet, as you hoped.
* You jump, landing right on top of the carrier.
* At this range, missiles can't take up enough speed to be dangerous. Your dumb
  projectile weapons, normally used for short-range missile defense, reign
  supreme.
* There's no way to defend at this range, and both you and the carrier take
  heavy damage. But you slowly gain the upper hand against the lightly armed
  carrier.
* Suddenly, a few blips on your sensor screen, over the horizon in front of you.
  Looks like a group of destroyers. You fell into the Von Neumann probes trap!
* They're approaching you from the opposite direction. You won't be near them
  for long, but with their superior firepower they won't need long to obliterate
  you.
* You're trapped. They're fanning out. No matter which direction you try to
  evade, you'll be in range of their guns and missiles.
* You accelerate. Punch through their formation, minimize the time spent in
  their range.
* As missiles explode all around you, you notice that your friends, engaged in
  combat with the carrier's drones, jump away.
* A heavy explosion rocks your ship. The world around you turns to black.

---

* You wake up, your head hurting, your breathing heavy.
* Ship is on emergency power. No-one around you.
* Environmental sensors are disabled, but you have to breathe a lot, are tired.
  Oxygen must be low, you probably have a leak.
* You muse: This is the end. Your ship will end up a wreck, to be looted by
  those less adventurous than yourself.
* You're losing conciousness again.
* Last thought: It was worth a try. It could have worked.

---

Story over! Here we need some context, email subscription form etc.

- This story describes a raid with strategic space combat including realistic
  navigation using orbital mechanics. This is only one thing that could happen
  in the sandbox.
